---

slug: stupid-convos-1
title: Stupid Conversations Part 1
description: I struggle to receive a food delivery
show_on_home_page: True
filename: StupidConvo1
---

I was waiting on the stairs for my GrubHub driver to deliver the Indian food that I had ordered. He came up to the door and I opened it. He handed me the bag. I said thank you. Then he asked if it was for me.

I already had it in my hand, so I certainly hoped so. He was also clearly a delivery driver from the app that had just notified me that my food would be arriving soon. I was also clearly waiting for the food. I should have just said yes and moved on. But I was surprised by his question and its timing. I already had the food. I second guessed myself. Maybe it wasn't for me. Maybe the other apartment had ordered delivery at the same time from the same app.

"I think so? Is it for Willy?" I said.

"I don't know, " said the delivery driver, pointing back to his idling car with the phone in his hand. "The name's on my phone in the car."

The phone in his hand showed that he was calling someone. I realized later that he was calling my phone that I had left on the table upstairs. I guess he had expected me to have my phone on me, which explains his original question. If the food was mine, why wasn't my phone ringing? Also, why didn't I know that it was mine?

We were at an impasse. He wasn't going to leave me with the food to go back to his car to look at his other (burner?) phone to see if my name was on the order, but I wasn't going to go all the way back upstairs to get my phone to prove my identity. Besides, I already had the food.

I stared at him, lost for words. I should mention that the food took about an hour and a half to arrive and that I was ravenously hungry and not thinking very clearly.

The delivery driver, quick as ever, saved us. "It's from Indian Kitchen," he said.

"Oh, great," I replied. That's where I had ordered from. Obviously.

He ran back to his car and I ran upstairs.
