---
slug: orange
title: A Clockwork Orange (Revised and Re-imagined for Younger Audiences)
description: All rights reserved
show_on_home_page: True
filename: ClockworkOrange
---


There is a young orange named Alex ripening in his tree in a quiet grove in central Florida. He is a huge fan of the great classical composer Ludwig van Beethoven. He especially enjoys humming along to Ludwig van's Ninth Symphony as he grows and grows in his tree. Alex also likes to drink lots and lots of water because he knows staying hydrated is very important for young oranges. He does not drink any milk and he especially doesn't drink any milk with drugs in it. Alex knows that drinking milk supports the dairy industry which treats poor old cows just horribly. Alex also stays away from drugs since being traumatized by his mother's fatal overdose. Alex is a good orange who knows right from wrong (but not, unfortunately for his mother, Narcan from Epinephrine).

And so Alex spends his free time (when he's not studying diligently for school) sitting in his tree, listening to Ludwig van and drinking water with his dear friends. Since Alex is such a good orange, his dear friends look up to him as a leader. They respect him and cherish him. They would never stab him in the back or leave him for dead. They care for Alex. (The same, unfortunately, can no longer be said of his late mother.) But so, the four fast friends had great fun hanging out in their orange tree enjoying such amusements as drinking water and listening to the Ninth Symphony.

Sometimes, Alex's girlfriend, Nancy, comes over as well. These visits are always great good fun for all. After they've drunk their fill of water and maybe snacked on some delicious central Florida sunshine, Nancy will bid Alex adieu, and Alex, being quite smitten with her indeed, will ask politely if they may hug goodbye. Nancy, quite smitten herself, will usually agree. Then, having each received positive, mutual, and freely given consent, they hug gently goodbye. Alex is a good orange.

But then, come fall, having ripened considerably, all the oranges, like clockwork, fall from the tree and are trampled to death by the wild boars endemic to central Florida's sunny groves. Alex dies in agony; yet he was a good orange, and is thus received warmly in the Kingdom of Heaven, where he happily reunites with his dear friends (but not, of course his good-for-nothing mother, may she rot in hell).

The End.
